Let's take a closer look at the AWS performance
optimized instances and how they're used in workloads in the real world.
When you need increased performance from your EC2 compute,
it's imperative you understand how AWS optimized instances can
provide you with higher throughput on your specialized intensive workloads.
F1, P2, P3, G3,
and G4 instances provide extremely accelerated computing resources,
including instance, network, and GPU
for super computing and applications like scientific image modeling.
C4 and C5 instances are compute optimized instances,
best used for compute bound applications that benefit from
high performance processors like high performance computing and scientific modeling.
T2 and T3 are burstable instances that are
unique in their ability to perform beyond their baseline CPU resources.
This flexibility and performance is achieved through tracking
CPU credits that accumulate over time when the instance is running below capacity.
When credits run out,
the instances performance returns to its baseline and accumulation cycle continues.
R4 and R5 are memory optimized instances,
best for applications that process a lot of data in memory,
like high performance databases.
D2 instances are storage optimized instances.
This new generation comes with massive scale ephemeral storage.
It terminates when instance terminates,
but is just still be a part of the cost conversation.
Once your machine learning model is trained to meet your requirements,
you can deploy your model on Inf1 instance by using AWS neuron.
Inf1 instances are optimized for machine learning
inference applications with AWS customized chips,
scalable processors, and fast networking.
An AWS neuron is a software developer kit for
machine learning using the AWS customer Inferentia chips.
That's a bit out of scope for this lesson,
but it's good information to know about optimized EC2 instances.
While instance types or families don't change much,
their sizes and generations are updated quite frequently.
So someone on the cloud team needs to stay on top of
EC2 instance announcements on the AWS blog.
These updates usually result in improved performance at a lower cost.
So it's also a factor and how you decide on your reserved instance mix.
You might not want to make a three-year reserved commitment to
an instance type and reserve for one year instead,
if you work at the type of company that wouldn't hesitate to move to
a new generation to save money or improved performance.